
+++
title = "02_24"
slug = "02_24"
draft = false
date = "2016-02-25T01:07:58.000Z"

+++
##### Did
- Meditated
- Wrote `map` and `reduce` functions to count words in a bunch of Project Guttenberg books.
- Finished the `scheduling` function for the `Go` map/reduce lab with help from Oguz. Here's the code:

```go
	var done = make(chan bool)

	for i := 0; i < ntasks; i++ {
		go func(i int) {
			worker := <-mr.registerChannel
			args := DoTaskArgs{mr.jobName, mr.files[i], phase, i, nios}
			ok := call(worker, "Worker.DoTask", args, new(struct{}))
			for ok != true {
				worker = <-mr.registerChannel
				ok = call(worker, "Worker.DoTask", args, new(struct{}))
			}
			done <- true
			mr.registerChannel <- worker
		}(i)
	}

	for i := 0; i < ntasks; i++ {
		<-done
	}

```
Basically this a queue of sorts. The scheduler creates a `goroutine` for each task, waits for a worker on the `registerChannel`, and when she gets one, she makes an `RPC` call for that worker to do the task (Map or Reduce). She waits until the RPC call succeeds, queuing more workers if necessary (weak worker failure code checking), and then pops the worker back into the queue and adds a `true` message to the done channel.

Because these `RPC` calls are are done in differant `goroutines` than the main one, we, finally, have to wait for all of the `done` messages to appear and drain that channel.

- The above took a while to wrap my head around, but in the end I think it all makes pretty good sense. Writing `Go` is turning out to be lots of fun! (and channels make concurrency especially simple(not easy))
- Went to algorithms talk by Caleb on crypto.
- Ran through my Anki decks. Seems like it'll be helpful.
- Tried to explain Map/Reduce to Karan and John. I think I'm starting to understand it myself. Which is good, because I'm gonna present on it tomorrow....


