
+++
title = "02_17"
draft = false
date = "2016-02-17T16:43:40.000Z"

+++
###### Did
- Meditated
- Did `fibonacci closure` exercise in Go -> this was interesting, as go has parallel assignment
```Go
first, second := 0, 1
first, second = second, first + second
```
- Read more about `Ruby` and pass-by-reference vs pass-by-value. It turns out `Ruby` is (confusingly) pass-reference-by-value (aka object sharing). This is fucking weird but this quote from a [great blog](http://robertheaton.com/2014/07/22/is-ruby-pass-by-reference-or-pass-by-value/) really helps sort it out:
> “Hamlet was not written by Shakespeare; it was merely written by a man named Shakespeare.” - PKD, _Valis_

- This basically means that when you call a function, arguments are copies of the reference to the objects. If you do modification of the parameter in the function, you're modifying the underlying object because you have a reference to it (really, a copy of a reference to it). But if you reassign the argument to another object, this won't be reflected outside the scope of the function.

- Methods in `Go` usually have *pointer receivers so you can actually modify the value to which the receiver points, versus modifying the direct value which might be fine for a non-method function
- Implemented the Hack ALU from Nand2Tetris
- Met with Nancy to talk about jobs
- Went to Algorithms study group section by Dror on dynamic programming. This was interersting. It involves solving problems that are generally done recursively with iterative methods.
- An example of the above would be solving fibonacci by starting with the base cases of 0 & 1 and then building the sequence upwards.


